.TH aspcud 1 "September 19, 2017"  "Version 1.9.4" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
aspcud \- solve dependencies between packages

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B aspcud
[\fIOPTION\fR]... [\fIINPUT-FILE\fR] [\fIOUTPUT-FILE\fR] [\fICRITERION\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B aspcud
solves package installation/removal/upgrade problems expressed in the CUDF format.
It is intended to be called by package installers, but may also be used independently.

If the tool is not able to find a solution, then it writes "FAIL" to the output file.

.SH ARGUMENTS

The first two command line arguments are mandatory:
.TP
.I INPUT-FILE
is the pathname of the file containing the problem specification in CUDF format
(both the universe and the request).
If absent, the specification is read from stdin.
.TP
.I OUTPUT-FILE
is the pathname of the file into which the solution will be written in CUDF output format.
If the file does not exist it will be created,
if it does already exist it will be overwritten without warning.
If absent, output is written to stdout.
.TP
.I CRITERION
selects the optimization criterion. To get a list of supported criteria, see
the \fB\-c\fR option of \&\fIcudf2lp\fR\|(1). If absent, the paranoid criterion
is used.  Note that the criterion can be passed via option \fB\-\-criterion\fR
as well.
.SH OPTIONS
.B aspcud
supports the following options:
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
print help text, and default configurations and paths
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
print version and license information
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-criterion\fR \fICRIT\fR
set the optimization criterion
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-solver\-option\fR \fIOPT\fR
append clasp option OPT (can be given multiple times);
if at least one clasp option is given, then default search options are not used
.TP
\fB\-g\fR, \fB\-\-grounder\-option\fR \fIOPT\fR
append gringo option OPT (can be given multiple times)
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-encoding\fR \fIENC\fR
append encoding ENC (can be given multiple times);
if at least one encoding is given, then the default encoding is not used
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-preprocessor\-option\fR \fIOPT\fR
append cudf2lp option OPT (can be given multiple times)
.TP
\fB\-S\fR, \fB\-\-solver\fR \fISOL\fR
path to solver (clasp)
.TP
\fB\-G\fR, \fB\-\-grounder\fR \fIGRD\fR
path to grounder (gringo)
.TP
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-preprocessor\fR \fIPRE\fR
path to cudf preprocessor (cudf2lp)
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-verbosity\fR \fIN\fR
set the verbosity level
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-debug\fR
do not cleanup temporary files

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.B aspcud
uses temporary files. These are put into the folder indicated by the
environment variable TMPDIR or, if not set, by the POSIX constant P_tmpdir.

.SH AUTHOR
.B aspcud
has been written by Roland Kaminski and Martin Gebser.

.SH SEE ALSO
\&\fIcudf2lp\fR\|(1), \&\fIgringo\fR\|(1), \&\fIclasp\fR\|(1), and
<http://www.mancoosi.org/cudf/> for the specification of the CUDF format.
